#summary Accepted input models.

= Introduction =

The only accepted file format in the moment is the
Stanford PLY format.

= Details =

The repository already includes the _ply.c_ and _ply.h_ files. These have been a little modified to compile without warnings. Unfornately, to my knowledge, the ply library was built specifically for 32-bits architectures, so if you are running on a 64-bits machine you'll not be able to use binary plys, only ascii plys.

Links to the complete ply library can be found at http://graphics.stanford.edu/data/3Dscanrep/

To convert from binary to ascii use the *ply2ascii* program in the ply library.

The accepted _ply_ files must have two more attributes besides the vertex coordinates:

  * Normals
  * Radius

These three attributes compose a _surfel_.

==Attributes==

===Surfel Coordinates===

The 3D coordinates are expected to be normalized between [-1, +1].

===Surfel Normals===

Vertex normals may be computed using the ply library or by any other convenient method.

===Surfel Radius===

The radius of a surfel corresponds to its sampling distance. This can be computed using the k-nearest neighbors of a sample.

===Precomputed Models===

Some models with precomputed normals and radius can be found at [http://www.lcg.ufrj.br/Projetos/pbr]. A few smaller models can also be found here under the *Downloads* tab.

==LOD Models==

Models containing the Level-of-Detail structure can be generated from the *Write LOD* option in the *File* menu, or loaded directed. Lod model files must contain the extension _.lod_. For more info see [Interface].

==Tree Models==

Tree models are line-based representations converted from the original triangulated models. They must contain the extension _.pol_. For more info see [Interface].

==Scenes==

Files with extensions _.scn_ contains one or more models with position, rotation, material and renderer type information. It also stores the camera's position and direction as well as light position. A scene file can be loaded as any other kind of file from the *Open* file menu option.

After setting up the models a scene file can be created by selecting the option *Write Scene* from the *File* menu. For the moment it always creates a file named *scene.scn* that should be renamed to avoid overwriting.

